- [Instructor] With the payara server started
and the administrative console open,
at local host 4848,
you would have noticed that it does not prompt
for a password.
Before we address that,
let's look at some of the basic features,
offered here, in payara.
Payara 5 administrative console,
has a long deheader,
a listing of the current user logged in,
the domain and the machine.
On the left hand side is the navigation menu.
The navigation menu bar lists common tasks,
at the top,
which by default is open quickly addressing things
like changing the administrative password,
monitoring data and logs,
creating new JDBC resources
and over here,
listing applications and deploying applications.
The common task section
groups together, common tasks
that you would most routinely access.
Without getting too bogged down in
going through each of the items on the left navigation,
let's focus on changing the password.
We can access this functionality
through the common task section
by clicking on administrative password.
Or, we can come over here,
click on the domain link
and click on administrative password.
From here, you would type in your password.
You might have guessed what I'm going to type here.
My secret,
that again,
is capital M Y $ 3 C R E T
and at this point we'll click save.
Okay, with that done,
let's click the home button at the top.
After that, it refreshes us and
we have a log out link.
Let's click that.
Confirm our logout.
So now, we see a login screen.
Our user is admin
and our password is M Y $ 3 C R E T.
Enter.
Let's stop the server and see what happens now.
We'll type bin.asadmin stop-domain domain1
hit enter.
Notice that I put domain1 after stop-domain
this is really a good habit to get into
because domain1, as we'll get into later,
could be named differently.
So let's go ahead and start our domain back up.
We'll type bin/asadmin start-domain domain1
hit enter.
I'm going to go back to our
browser here
and I'm going to close this incognito window.
And open a new incognito window.
Going to type in localhost:4848
hit enter.
And notice that we're prompted for our username
and password again.
So we've entered our credentials.
We have changed them.
So how about we do this through the CLI.
To do this we're going to go back now and
blow away our installation and start over.
So let's close the browser window.
We're going to go back to our terminal.
We're going to stop the asadmin service.
Go ahead and close this window here.
(typing)
And we're going to remove payara.
See it's gone.
Now we're going to unzip payara again.
CD back into the server.
(typing)
Type bin/asadmin start-domain domain1.
Now we're going to use the CLI to change the password
but the domain has to be started first.
So next, from the command line
we're going to type
bin/asadmin change-admin-password
and hit enter.
This will give you
a default user admin,
so just hit enter.
Next it prompts you for an admin password.
But because we have just wiped out
the payara5 installation and started over,
leave this blank for now and hit enter.
From reviewing stack overflow and other blogs,
this seems to throw a lot of people off.
So, now it's going to ask for a new admin password.
I'm going to type my favorite password,
my secret, hit enter.
And confirm.
If you did everything correctly,
you should see a message,
command change-admin-password
executed successfully.
Switching back to our browser,
put a new incognito window,
localhost:4848, hit enter.
And it prompts us for our administrative password again.
So, we've changed the password
through the domain administrative console
and we've also changed it through the
command line interface.